All of the examples of working with text and speech so
far has assumed that we're working in English.
But what if we need to collaborate with someone who
speaks another language?
In Power BI to understand language enables automated
translation which can be a powerful way to bring people
together.
Let's take a look at the Microsoft Translator API and
see it in action.
Now for translation,
there are actually two cognitive services APIs.
There's one for text and one for speech.
We'll focus on the text one, just cuz it's simpler to
demonstrate in the video like this.
But you could use either of them to do automatic translation
through a number of different languages.
So let's take a look.
So just like any other of these cognitive services we've been
working with,
we're gonna provision it in our Azure subscription.
And I've actually already provisioned the text translation
cognitive service here.
And I have some access keys available for
me to use with that service.
So we go back to my jupyter notebook, and
you can see here's my key.
So we'll just go and populate that variable.
So we have the key.
And then we're ready to go and translate some text.
And this is a pretty similar setup to the Bang speech API in
that we have to initially get an access token, and
then use that access token for ten minutes to call the method.
So we got similar code to what we had previously.
Before we do all of that however,
I'm gonna first of all ask for
some text that I wanna translate.
So we're just gonna type in some text, then the fromLangCode.
So what's the language I wanna translate from?
What's the source language?
And then the to language code.
What's the language I would like to translate that code into?
So here's the code to do that.
Basically, we take our text key and
use that to get our token, so we get our access token.
An access token is gonna be bearer plus whatever
the token is that gets returned.
And then we can set up our headers.
In the header we've got the authorization which is
the accesstoken we've just retrieved.
We defined some parameters, so
this time we're not passing up the information on the body.
We're actually passing up these parameters.
And the parameters are basically the text I wanna translate,
the language I wanna translate it to and
the language I wanna translate it from.
So we pass those up.
We're then gonna call this api.microsofttranslator.com is
the URL.
It's a GET request and
we're gonna pass it to that bit of the URL and we're calling
effectively with this translate method is what we're calling.
Pass that all up, and what we'll then get back is
the translation because this is the text translator,
it'll come back in text.
So let's just go ahead and run that and type in some text.
Now as it happened, I did learn some French at school.
And if anybody is watching this who went to school with me,
you'll know that I didn't learn very much of it.
So we'll just type in,
I learned French at school but I've forgotten it.
I'll just correct our spelling there.
So that's the text I wanna translate.
And what language is that?
Well that's English, so EN is the code for language.
What language would I like to translate it to?
Well FR for French.
And I get back the French.
[FOREIGN] So
that's what's happened with my high school French.
Now we could go ahead and we could run that again.
We could try various different things as well so
I would like to speak Spanish.
Again, that's in English.
And this time I want to convert that to Spanish, Espana.
And we get back our translation.
So we've got this translation API, very quickly we can submit
some text, in this case in one language, and have it almost
instantaneously translated to another language of our choice.
And that can be very useful for
bringing people together from different languages,
different countries and enabling them to communicate.