So now that we understand a bit more about what machine learning
is, it's time to think about how we can work with data to
create predictive models.
Now, there are lots of tools, services, and programming
languages that data scientists use to prepare a model and
test data.
In this course, we'll look at an easy to use service for
machine learning and
modeling in Microsoft Azure, but the same principles and
work flow apply to almost any machine learning framework.
Azure machine learning is a cloud service in Azure
that enables you to experiment with data and
create predictive models.
You start with a data set, which contains the data with which you
want to experiment, and this data set provides the starting
point of an experiment in which you'll define a workflow
of transformations to apply to the data as you explore it and
prepare it for modeling.
You can use your experiment to find the most
effective ways to train a machine learning model and
generate a predictive experiment from your training experiment.
Which encapsulates the machine learning model and the
associated data transformations ready to be used with new data.
You can then publish your predictive experiment
as a web service, and client applications
can call that web service to generate predicted values.
Well to get started with Azure machine learning,
you'll need to provision an Azure ML work space.
Now there is a free standalone work space offering for
getting started with Azure ML.
And there's also a full service integrated into Azure.
In this course,
we're going to use the full Azure work space but
a lot of what we look at applies to both.
Right, let's take a look at how we go ahead and
provision our work space in our Azure portal.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and Add a new resource.
And I could go in and hunt for it, it's at those various
places it's likely to be or I could simply search for
it using the Search box, so we'll just go and do that.
Azure Machine Learning and
I find a bunch of things that are fairly close matches to that
including this thing called a machine learning work space.
And that's the one I want, so we're gonna go ahead and
create our workspace which is choose Create.
And I'm gonna have to define some sort of name for
my work space, so I'll just call it a AMLWS.
It just does a little check to make sure I haven't already
got something with that name, so that's fine.
And we can either put it into an existing resource group or
create a new resource group.
Resource groups are just used to keep all things that are related
together, so I'm gonna create a new one,
call it AzureML Resources.
And I can choose the location where I want to deploy that, so
I'll go ahead and deploy in, let's say, West Europe.
And I'm gonna need a storage account to go with
that Azure ML work space.
The storage account is used to store
the models I'm gonna create and the data that I'm gonna work
with in all that kind of thing in the work space.
So we'll create a new one, and I need to give it a name,
and that storage account that it's got there already exists.
So we'll come up with some alternative name for that, so
we'll just call it anlstore12345,
something like that.
And yep, we get a little tick there to tell us
that that's a unique name, I've actually said amlstore.
We'll just correct that, okay,
so I've got the choice of a work space pricing tier.
Well I don't really get a choice actually, I'm just gonna go with
the standard pricing tier here, so we'll go with that.
And what's gonna happen here is I'll be charged for
web services that I use.
When I publish my machine learning models as web services,
I'll be charged per use.
So I'm only really charged when I actually use
the predictive models that I create.
And what I get charged for that is based on my pricing plan, so
I'm gonna go ahead and choose a pricing plan, and
actually I'm gonna choose the DEVTEST pricing plan,
which gives me a total of 2 compute hours,
1,000 transactions for zero cost.
So for me, just learning about this,
that's a perfect choice for me, so we'll take that, and
then we're ready to go, so we'll just click Create.
And off goes our Azure portal to create our Azure machine
learning work space, so
we'll just give that a minute or two to get created.
And when the deployment is succeeded, I get a little
message up here telling me that everything is ready.
And I can go and look in my resource groups here,
here's my AzureMLResources resource group.
And I can see that what it's actually deployed is my AML.WS
workspace that we asked for and also a store,
the amlstore12345 storage account that I wanted to
create to store the models and files I'm gonna work with.
And also, this plan here which is my machine learning plan,
which is how we effectively we're gonna pay for the use of
the service, so these three resources are deployed together.
And I can go and have a look at my work space and
what I can see in here is just some details about that, but
the most important thing here is the ability to launch machine
learning studio.
And I find go and
click that it opens up on a new tab in my browser, and
I can go ahead and just sing in using my same credentials,
And this gives me the environment that I'm gonna use
to work with my machine learning experiments.
Now you might be wondering why if I've just created a brand
newer space why there is already some experiments in it.
And that's because,
you can have multiple workspaces associated with your account, so
you can see that I've already got a couple of workspaces set
up where I've already been working with some experiments.
And I can always switch back to the one that I just created,
which was in West Europe,
there's my MLWS work space, if I switch to that one,
And you can see that I've got a brand new empty work space with
no experiments in it, nothing else in these other folders here
either, ready for me to start working with some data.
And experimenting and
creating some web services with predictive models.