So how do we create a clustering model in Azure ML?
So, in this case I've got my Azure Machine Learning Studio
experiment and I'm gonna be looking at people who come in to
donate blood in my health clinic.
So, I've got blood donation data here.
I'm gonna select some columns from that data set.
Really, I'm only interested in how recently someone has been
how frequently they come, whether there's some sort
of monetary aspect to them coming in to donate blood and
how many times in total they've been.
I'm just gonna normalize those numeric values so
that they're all in the same scale, so
that we don't have any high values dominating the training.
And then we're ready to go and create our cluster.
And what I really wanna do is try and find out are there kind
of groups within my blood donors that are similar?
And I'm gonna start using K-Means Clustering by specifying
that I want to create three centroids or three clusters,
if you like, and just see do they break nicely then into
three different types of donor?
So, I'm gonna train that clustering model using all of
the features.
And then I'm gonna look at what the results are that out.
First of all, just look at the results that come out of that.
Just visualize that.
And I can see I've got the Recency, the Frequency,
the Monetary, and the Time values.
These are all normalized so you can see them all in there.
And I've got the assignment.
And that's the cluster that this has been assigned to.
So I can see 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 0.
So there's three clusters and
we're assigning across to those various clusters.
Now, what I actually want to do is take a look at this output of
my training clustering model And
here I get my principal component analysis or PCA and
it's basically gonna show me those clusters using these kind
of vectors hidden in here.
So I can see these ellipsis that represent the clusters and
I've got kind of one that it's quite elongated at points,
kind of up and down, it's kind of vertical aligned there.
And then I've got a very small one that looks like it's aligned
the other way.
And then I've got this big kinda round kind of vague one in
the middle, so that they aren't very clearly separated.
There seems to be an awful lot of confusion about these
clusters.
So it doesn't look like I've really manage to identify three
different clusters.
So let's perhaps try that with less.
Let's see if it at least breaks down into two different clusters
and we'll just go ahead and run the experiment again.
And when it's finish we're going to take a look again at the PCA
that comes out of that.
And this time there are two clusters and
I can see that one of them,
is kinda oriented north-south, if you like or vertically.
So we've got this kind of ellipse that points up and
down the way.
And then we have an almost orthogonal ellipse going
across the other way.
So it does seem to break down better into two
different clusters.
It seems that we have two different kind of
types of person coming in to donate blood.