The language understanding intelligence service, or LUIS, is a cognitive service
that you can use to implement natural language processing for applications
that need to respond to human communications. Now we interact with
LUIS through utterances -  fragments of language that need to be interpreted, and
from these utterances LUIS identifies the most likely intent - a predefined goal
or action for the input. In this case the utterance is mapped to a book flight
intent. Now the intent is applied to the entities that are identified in the
utterance -  in this case the utterance include a location entity, New York; and a
date-time entity, this weekend. To start using LUIS you need to provision it as
an Azure service. Now we provision the language
understanding intelligence service just like any other cognitive service in
Azure, so we'll use our Azure portal to do that. So here I am in the Azure portal
and I'll just go and add a new resource just the same way as any other type of
resource; and again I can either go and browse for it or I can go and search for
what I'm looking for. In this case I'm looking for LUIS and we find the
language understanding service in here. So we'll go ahead and create an instance
of that, and we'll just go and read the information and then click Create; and
then I'm ready to specify a name for my LUIS service. So we'll just put in a
name and we'll just wait to get our little green tick of happiness to tell
us that we can use that, and then I'm going to specify the subscription in
which I want to create this LUIS service and that's going to be in my
existing subscription. I can choose the location of where I want to deploy this,
which of the data centers, I'll just leave it in the East US; and I can select
the pricing tier that I want to use to pay for the use of my LUIS service. Now
the F0 free service is is fine for just testing or just building
something as you develop it. When you put in production you're probably going to
want to put it into the S0 tier, which doesn't have the restrictions on
it that the free tier does -  the free tier is limited to 10,000 calls per month.
In this case I'll just choose the free tier and we're ready to go. Now I'll choose
the resource group that I want to manage this resource within, and I have an
existing resource group for my cognitive services so we'll just go and put it in
there. I've read the information and I'm ready to go and create the LUIS
service, so it goes and validates those settings and it will then start to go
and create that resource, that LUIS resource that I'm creating; and it'll
deploy that into my Azure subscription. When the deployments complete I get
a little message and I can go and have a look at that resource; and I'll just
close that pane there, and I can see some information about my my LUIS
service. Now there's a few bits of information in here. There are some keys
like there are with with all the services that we've looked at so far, and there's
some information about how to make an API call -  I can see the documentation
there; and there's also this link here to something called the language
understanding portal; and if I click that link it'll open up in a new page and it
takes me to this web site where I can use this portal to create my LUIS
app; and that's what we'll look at in the next topic.