So in the previous demonstration we created a LUIS app and published that
as a service. Let's take a look now at how we can consume that app from a
client. So previously I created my LUIS app and I published it to a production
slot using this option here; and this is the endpoint that I've got for my client
apps to connect to my LUIS app; and what I've done is I've copied that endpoint
and over in my client code here. I've got some some Python code I have just pasted
that endpoint in here, so that's the endpoint URL that I'm going to use to
make an HTTP connection from my client app, which in this case is just this
Python script and it's going to connect to my LUIS app, So what am I going to do?
Well I'm going to connect and then I'm going to enter a command. So I'm
going to get a prompt here to enter a command, which I'll type in, and then
we'll send that command to my LUIS app. There's a little bit of code in here. If
the command has spaces in it that's going to mess up the URL, so we're just
going to replace those with a little plus symbol, so that they get encoded in the
URL properly; and then we'll put that together. That's going to be our request,
and then we will submit that to our endpoint and we'll get back the response.
The response will come back as a string which we'll just decode -  it's actually a
binary array - we'll decode that and it will load that as a JSON document, and
then within that JSON document we're going to look for a top-scoring intent; and
get the intent, and if that is Light On then we're going to display an
appropriate image; if it's Light Off we'll display another appropriate image;
and if it's something else entirely, we'll display yet another image. So
that's pretty much the logic -  we send our command, we get back what the LUIS
app says the intent is for that command, and from that we'll then take an
appropriate response. So it's going to run this code and it's going to ask me to
enter in a command. So I'll just enter one of our utterances to switch on the
light, and I get back my response; and you can see there's a picture of a lamp here
with with the light on. Now I said I entered switch on the light, and my
utterance was switched the light on; but the word order made no difference -  it's
still figured out that's the right command; and if I run it again we can
try something else .We could say turn the light off, and back becomes an
appropriate response, and we display an image here showing the lamp without the
light on. So the light is off. So with this very simple example here, you've
seen that we can build a LUIS app; we can specify the intents that are our app
is going to have; we give some sample utterances for those intents; and we
train the app; and then it's able to respond to requests from the client and
send back the appropriate information about, well this is the
intent we believe that the user wants and then the app can take the appropriate
response based on that.