Machine learning provides the foundation for
artificial intelligence.
So what is it?
Well, as the name suggests, machine learning is a technique
in which we train a software model using data.
The model learns from the training cases and then we can
use the trained model to make predictions for new data cases.
The key to this is to understand that fundamentally,
computers are very good at one thing, performing calculations.
To have a computer make intelligent predictions from
the data, we just need a way to train it to perform the correct
calculations.
We start with a data set that contains historical records,
often called cases or observations.
And each observation includes numeric features
that quantify a characteristic of the item we're working with.
Let's call that X.
In general, we also have some value that we're trying
to predict, which we'll call Y.
And we use our training cases to train a machine learning model
so that it can calculate a value for Y from the features in X.
So in very simplistic terms, we're creating a function that
operates on a set of features, X, to produce predictions, Y.
Now generally speaking, there are two broad kinds of machine
learning, supervised and unsupervised.
In supervised learning scenarios,
we start with the observations that include known values for
the variable we want to predict.
And we call these labels.
Now, because we started with data that includes the label
we're trying to predict, we can train the model using only some
of the data and withhold the rest of the data for
evaluating model performance.
We then use a machine learning algorithm to train a model
that fits the features to the known label.
And because we started with the known label value,
we can validate the model by comparing the value predicted by
the function, to the actual label value that we knew.
Then, when we're happy that the model works,
we can use it with new observations for
which the label is unknown, and generate new predicted values.
Unsupervised learning is different from supervised
learning, in that this time we don't have known label values in
the training data set.
We train the model by finding similarities between
the observations.
After the model is trained,
each new observation is assigned to the cluster of observations
with the most similar characteristics.