We are trying to teach sailplanes to stay up in the air autonomously,
for as long as possible.
Okay, I'm ready.
(Propeller buzzing) What would it take for us to reproduce this
intelligence that birds like eagles and albatross have?
Yeah, you can start this now.
Ok. (inaudible) Just a little bit.
Okay, we're going to move up slow.
The glider needs the ability to predict where it can find thermals,
these thermals are bubbles of air that rise up.
So you might have seen, you know, hawks or eagles you know soaring in the sky, they are
doing this circular pattern, and what they are doing is they are just riding this bubble
of air.
It has an instrument called a variometer that tells it how fast it is rising.
Reentering soaring mode.
It has other sensors such as air speed, GPS location, so it knows where it is as it is
flying through an area of rising air that, "Hey I happen to be rising," which means that
it must be the surrounding air that's lifting me up.
So at every single instance the glider needs to decide whether it should go and take a
risk in order to find a thermal or keep doing what it's doing.
Am I going towards the region where terrain might be rising and it might jeopardize my
safety?
The hardest part of the project is not to just keep the sailplane in the air,
it is to keep the sailplane in the air under a variety of constraints.
Yeah, waypoint one just is not working for whatever reason.
We have legal constraints, we cannot go above a certain altitude.
We have safety constraints.
(radio chatter) Any AI system capable of acting in the real
world will have to follow rules.
Some of these rules will be explicit, like laws.
And some will be implicit, like social norms.
Thermal?
Good Did the motor run?
It's off!
Whoa.
A lot of lift.
And you'll be at the cusp of technology where you know these flying robots can provide immense
utility.
For instance package delivery, precision agriculture, mapping, providing internet connectivity.
So it is critical that these devices are intelligent.
These devices can make decisions on the fly, under uncertain environments.